IL-2 Korea Service Record 1.5 — the coat with the medals on it, a Career Helper, and
honest flight hours for people who warp


Gentlemen,

1.5 is out. As before, everything below is new or changed since 1.4; the earlier posts
describe the rest, and none of it has changed.


THE COAT

Click the ribbon rack on a service record and the tunic opens: a photograph of the coat the
man would have worn, with his awards on it as the regulations of his army placed them. Two
buttons switch between service dress and full dress.

Service dress is the ribbons — for a USAF pilot the rack over the left pocket with his wings
above it, four to a row when he has more than nine (regulations allowed three or four, and a
man with four rows of three would have pushed his wings into the collar), and the unit
citations over the right pocket, which is where the Army put them and the Air Force kept
them until it had a manual of its own.

Full dress is the medals themselves, hanging from their bar, four to a row, each higher row
over the drapes of the row below, the clusters, the V and the campaign stars on the drape at
the sizes the regulations give them. The Medal of Honor is a neck decoration, so it hangs at
the collar on its pad, the ribbon passing under the shirt collar. The unit citations have
no medal and stay ribbons on the right. The twelve medals were drawn for this to one scale,
so a Bronze Star is not the size of a Distinguished Service Cross.

Soviet and North Korean pilots get their own coats — the M1943 kitel with the standing
collar and the Air Force's blue piping, and the KPA tunic — and their own rules, which are
the Soviet rules of 1943 (the Korean People's Army took them over with its Soviet
advisers), and quite different from the American ones:

 • The Gold Star of a Hero is worn above everything on the left breast, and always in kind —
   it was never replaced by a ribbon bar, even on the everyday tunic.
 • Orders and medals that have a ribbon (Lenin, Red Banner, For Courage, For Battle Merit;
   the two Korean medals) hang on pentagonal mounts over the left pocket, on one common bar,
   the senior nearest the centre of the chest and lying on top where they overlap. A second
   or third Red Banner is a second or third order, with its numeral, and takes its own place
   on the bar.
 • The orders that have no ribbon at all — Suvorov, Nevsky, the Red Star; the Korean Orders
   of Freedom and Independence and of Soldier's Honour, both classes — are screw-back badges
   and are pinned over the right pocket, senior nearest the centre.
 • Above them, the military pilot's class badge, which appeared in 1950, and above that the
   wound stripes of 1942, side by side if there are several; a centimetre between each.
 • In service dress the bars go over the left pocket — the bottom row just above the flap,
   never on it — and the bars of the right-breast orders on the right side, which is where
   the 1943 rules had them (they moved to the left only after 1955).

All the Soviet and Korean pieces are the game's own artwork, brought to one scale; the coat
just puts them where they belong. The Chinese still get nothing, for the reason given last
time.


THE CAREER HELPER

A second program, installed beside the tracker and opened from the button in the header.
The tracker itself never writes to the game — that has been its rule from the first day —
and the Helper is the deliberate exception: a small window that changes the career file, and
only that, with a backup taken before every single write (kept outside the game's folder, so
the game can never mistake one for a career; the last twelve are kept). It refuses to run
unless the awards mod is installed, because everything it does assumes the mod's data.

Three things it can do.

REVIVE A PILOT. When an AI pilot is killed or goes missing, the game writes his state and the
date into the career on the spot. The Helper can undo that — but only on the same career
day, before the next day's rollover has processed the loss, and never for the player. Pick
the man, and choose whether he comes back having bailed out (the aircraft stays lost) or with
his aircraft restored. It is there for the cases the sim gets wrong: the wingman who "died"
because the AI flew him into a hill on the taxiway, or the loss you caused yourself by an
Alt-Tab at the wrong moment. Use it as you would a house rule.

AWARD POINTS. Adds points to the squadron's award pool, which is what the game spends when
it grants decorations. For the campaign that reaches its end with the pool empty and the
Silver Star three points away.

CORRECTED FLIGHT TIMES. This is the one that needs explaining, because it changes numbers
you look at every day.

The game credits a sortie with the time you actually spent in it. If you fly a mission in
real time, that is the truth. If you take off, climb out and then warp to the target and
back — which is how most of us fly a 90-minute Sabre patrol — the sortie is written into the
career as twenty-five minutes, and everything that grows from flight time grows from that:
the pilot's hours, the squadron's, the Air Medal that can be earned on hours, the Soviet
pilot's class badges that are earned on nothing else (20, 40 and 60 hours — a Soviet pilot
who warps never sees one), the logbook that says a man with 40 missions has 18 hours.
Worse, the clock inside the mission does not know about the warp either, so the log says you shot down a MiG at 08:04 on a mission that took off at
07:40 and would not have reached the Yalu before 08:30.

The Helper puts the plan's time back. For every mission it reads the flight log the game
wrote, finds the warps — a warp is where your aircraft covered five kilometres or more
between two fixes at better than one and a half times the speed the briefing gave that leg,
which distinguishes a warp from merely flying fast — and re-times the sortie to what the
route would have taken at the briefed speeds, plus the allowance the game itself adds for
take-off, join-up and landing. A pilot who returned is credited with the planned duration.
A pilot who was lost is credited with the time up to the moment he was lost, shifted by
whatever warps came before it, since he could not have been lost at a place he had not
reached. The events in the log — kills, hits, the bail-out — are shifted the same way, so the
MiG now goes down at 08:41, where it happened. Missions with no flight log (there are a few,
if you reflew one and the older log was replaced) fall back to the plan's duration alone;
the Helper shows for each mission whether it was timed from the log or from the plan.

Nothing is written until you say so. The Helper shows every mission with its original and
corrected time side by side, and "apply" writes them all. The change goes into the sortie,
the pilot, the squadron and the mission's end time, and a record of the originals is kept in
a sidecar file beside the tracker's settings, so it is fully reversible — months later, if
you like: "restore" puts every original figure back, to the second.

A career is either corrected or it is not; there is no half-way. Once you have applied, the
career stays corrected: each mission you fly afterwards is re-timed the first time the
tracker reads the career after the flight — backup first, as always, and it steps back and
waits if the game still has the file open. I did it that way deliberately, because the
alternative — corrected hours up to May, raw ones after — would be a file that lies in a
way you cannot see. Restore undoes the lot and ends it.

Two things follow from this that you should know. First, the tracker has a switch in its
header, "corrected times", that shows the corrected figures as an overlay without touching
the game at all — you can look before you decide, and a career you never apply to is never
written. Once you have applied to a career, the switch locks on for it, since the corrected
figures are then the ones in the file. Second, the game hands out some awards on flight
time. Applying hours can therefore earn a pilot an Air Medal the next day that he would not
have had; the Helper lists awards granted since the correction and lets you withdraw any of
them if you feel they were not earned. I leave that to your conscience.


ALSO

 • A "friendly fire" line in the incidents. The game logs an event for a friendly object the
   pilot destroyed — I found it after bombing a parked C-47 at K-47 on 12 April 1951 — and
   the record now shows it, in red, with the object's name. It costs nothing in the game
   beyond the shame.
 • The "highest combat award" column of the roster sorts by precedence now, not by the
   award's name — a Silver Star above a Bronze Star rather than "B" before "S".
 • A mission flown twice takes its newest flight log, by the timestamp in the file's name,
   instead of whichever the folder listed first.
 • Two framed unit citations side by side keep both their frames.


DOWNLOAD

IL-2 Korea Service Record v1.5.0.zip — the setup program (tracker, Career Helper, and the
optional awards mod, which has not changed since 1.4) and a README. Also on the Releases
page of the GitHub repository.

The fingerprint of the setup program, for anyone who wants to check the file they downloaded
against the one I built (see the 1.4 post for how):

    e1b456d82e5089ff649ff5bc8bf7e0f38adc1a488e358842e5c45efbf98ec817

    Get-FileHash IL2_Korea_Service_Record_Setup_v1.5.0.exe

Still unsigned; still waiting on the signing foundation. Defender scanned this build clean
here, and the fingerprint tells you it is the same file there.
